Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform.
From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
517. In this episode, Scott
talks with captain Brent Chapman
who works for the new
defense innovation unit experimental at
Moffett field, California. Hi, So
Scott Hanselman, this is another
episode of Hansel minutes today.
I'm talking with captain Brent
Chapman and you were a
research scientist at the army
cyber Institute, but now you've
just moved. I'm talking to
you from your new location.
That's right. I'm now in
a Moffett field, California at
the new defense innovation unit
experimental. That's very exciting. Congratulations.
Thank you. So it sounds
like the army is getting
into a, to cyber things.
You were at the army
cyber Institute. I didn't know
we had one of those.
We did a fairly new
organization, only a few years
old, and it sort of
follows the same timeline as
the new, the Army's new
as a branch, which is
the cyber warfare branch. So
after about 17 years or
so, army finally decided to
create a new branch specifically
focused on generating effects and
conducting operations in cyberspace. That's
very cool. I want to,
I want to dig into
that. I want to find
out about how that along
is as well as your
journey to be a maker,
but let's, let's back up
because I went over to
your, your website, your own
personal website, which is@brentmoorelabs.com. And
it's just a great site
with blog posts and projects
and YouTube videos and stuff
that you've done at maker
fair and all these kinds
of things. It sounds like
you've been tinkering since day
one. I haven't, yeah, it's
sort of my, my number
one hobby taking things apart,
sometimes putting them back together,
but really it's all about
sort of creation with tech
and with building a sort
of a, a way to
express myself sort of artistically
to where did you, when
did you start? Were you
taking things apart as a
toddler? Oh yeah. So my
I'd say it goes back
as you know, when I
first moved to the States,
my family and I immigrated
to the U S when
I was four from South
America, a little small, a
small country called Guyana, and
we moved to the New York
city. And I remember seeing
my first piece in technology.
In fact, it was, it
was a radio and just
thinking like, wow, this is,
this is magic. You know,
it sort of blew my
mind and, you know, so
I thought then, so the
next step for me was
like, well, how, how does
it work? I want to
get into this thing. So
I grabbed my, my dad
was a carpenter, right? So
he had his whole suite
of tools and sure enough,
I made my way over
to that toolbox and grabbed
the screwdriver. And that's how
it was, how it all
began. How do you, what
do you think people do
that? Like, why are there
people who want to take
the toaster apart and other
people just accept that the
toaster makes toast? I don't
know. It's a, it's a,
some that I kind of
think about to this very
day, especially as it relates
to my work, you know,
I, we have a lot
of products that are presented
to us with a set
of capabilities. And sometimes, you
know, we want to do
something just slightly different than
what it's built to do
or marketed to do, but
so it's kind of frustrating
to know that all you're
so close, but, you know,
if I can only tweak
this one thing or add
this one thing, you know,
it'd be, this would be
a perfect thing. And so
for me, that's a huge
motivation. And I think that
certainly I wasn't thinking about
that when I was four,
but it's sort of evolved
and matured into that to
this day. So I like
to see possibilities rather than
the products, you know, I
like to, to see what
else a cell phone is
capable of doing. You know,
it can, it can be
a remote, it can be
a flashlight. You know, we
only know we know all
these things, but taking that
mindset to almost everything on
a daily basis. For me,
it's kind of exciting When
we're trying to encourage people
to be makers and try
to encourage people to explore
how important is it to
teach people that mindset of,
you know, go and think
about systems and go and
think about opening up, you
know, things that you already
have and take apart stuff.
Don't be afraid of it.
How important is it that
we instill that into Tinder,
beginners and makers? I think
it's critical. And I talked
to some of my friends
and who, you know, who
have, they can remember back
to their granddad who loved
getting his hands dirty and
fixing something, whatever it was,
whether it was a car
or some type of electronics.
And he, that granted sort
of always knew, you know,
how things worked or his
first step when something was
broken was to sort of
just get in there. And,
you know, but when I
talked to my friend in
this case, it's, it's, well,
why don't you do this
since they're sort of afraid,
they're sort of, they've been
growing up with products with
planned obsolescence, you know, products
that are, that intimidate them.
And so they've sort of
lost that spirit of getting
into things and trying to,
to fix it first. Now
it's more, if something doesn't
work, you just sort of
get rid of it. And
it a new thing. And
for me, it's critical when
I educate or when I,
you know, I do my
daily duties as a cyber
warfare officer, I think it's
critical to sort of get
back to that and understand
how systems work, knowing what
you can do, knowing what
rules you can bend, what
rules you can break in
order to win over around
the system. And to be
more efficient about the way
we go about things. You
said that your, your dad
was a carpenter and you
were doing this from age
four and you were using
his tools. I can assume
that they encouraged you in
this, in this direction. Not
so much. I was actually
kind of, I was like,
my brother absolutely hated me
because whenever he got a
new toy, he sort of
knew what that really meant
that I got an, I
got a new experiment yeah.
Later that night. So, yeah.
And that's not really that
strange, you know, in, in,
in popular culture, like the
maker or the hacker, you
know, if you look at
it from the computer security
point of view was sort
of villainized forever from, and
it's really only until fairly
recently that it's now sort
of become the cool thing
with, you know, you could
see the evidence in popular
culture with shows like mr.
Robot, where it's not like
the cool thing to be
the one who knows how
systems work and how to
bend these rules. So growing
up, it was kind of
the same thing with me.
I was, I was sort
of the, not the wild
kid, but just like the,
I was destructive rather than
curious just how they saw
it. Yeah. I struggled with
that a little bit. You
know, every generation has their
idea of what a hacker
is, but like, I was
more of a phone person,
right. Remember phone freaking and
things like that. 2,600 figure
out. Yeah. I'm trying to
figure out what, you know,
what those tones meant. And
when someone came and poked
around on the phone system,
they would plug their wires
in and start sending tones
down and you realize you
get free long distance. Oh
yeah. Someone told me I
wasn't voted most likely to
be convicted of a white
collar crime. Oh yeah. Not,
not, not the kind of
thing you want to be
thought of at school. You
know, I, I look back
to my, like my teenage
days and I was certainly,
you know, I was, I
was in the gray space
if you will. Right. I
think I have a tone
for that. I've, I've done
my service now and I'm
all good. But you know,
that, that curiosity, you know,
at the time as a
teenager, you know, you certainly
don't fully grasp the legalities
and policy policy wise, what
you should and shouldn't be
doing on, on other people's
networks. But, you know, I
was curious and I wanted
to see how far I
could push things before they
sort of blew up in
my face. I I've definitely
toned it down and matured
quite a bit now, but
I think still that spirit
is so important in getting
that across the kids, that
it's okay to experiment within
reason, you know, to, to
want it, to be curious,
to find out how things
work. And sometimes that involves
taking things apart And exploring
boundaries, which, which actually brings
me to kind of an
interesting, if not a little
bit a complicated question, I
hope you don't mind if
you were, if you're a
security person, if you are
a maker, if you're an
Explorer, you're going to push
boundaries, but I don't think
of the army or the
military as being a boundary
pushing place. Is it hard
to, to balance those two
aspects of your personality? It
is, you know, and I,
I aim to strike a
nice balance on a daily
basis. You know, the military,
as you could imagine, is
built and has been successful,
especially, you know, the U
S military has been very
successful in working at scale
and being very efficient at
scale because of the rules
and the policies and procedures
in place. So something like
making or hacking, or even
cyber operations, you know, there
are some skills or some
mindsets that are fundamentally at
odds with that traditional military
mindset. And so there's friction
on almost a daily basis.
If you design a system,
for example, a military system,
you can expect it to
be lots and lots of
rules, but if you're conducting
cyber operations, even, you know,
in defense, you may need
to bend those rules in
order to come up with
an optimal outcome. And with
those two things at odds,
you can see how it's
very sort of can be
frustrating at times, because you
want to be good. You
want to be good at
what you do, and you
want to have fun and
to keep people safe, but
sometimes we get in our
own way from the military
point of view. Yeah, definitely.
It seems like the mindset
for being a good hacker
is different from perhaps being
a good soldier, but finding
that balance is what, what
you, what you're trying to
accomplish right now. That's right.
Yeah. And so when you
think about making and stuff
and doing work, I know
that you did work with
a maker fair and you
published lots of maker projects
on your, on your blog
and on your site. Is
that something that you can
do on the side? You
just tell the bosses at
the army, like, Hey, I'm
going to go to speak
at maker con this year.
How does that work? Yeah,
I think there's been a
really, I've been fortunate in
that my last job at
the U S military Academy
at West point in the
army cyber Institute and here
at the defense innovation unit
experimental, you know, my, my
bosses see this as a
great thing because our, you
know, their goal in both
organizations was outreach, finding out
ways to get the DOD,
specifically the army, you know,
back to the cutting edge
where we used to be.
And we sort of lost
that loss and lost that
edge over the many decades
of conflict of incredible influenced
by the defense industrial base.
You know, you can, you
can sort of think of
the large defense contractors and
defense companies. And if you
want to, we want to
get back to a better
relationship, a more productive relationship
with, with the public. So
when they see that I'm
willing and I, I have
the interest and I'm willing
to on a weekend or
over the summer, or what
have you go to the
maker fairs and the maker
cons go down to visit
ADA fruit, New York, for example,
CDs, makerspaces see that who
the Titans are and want
to create these relationships and
strengthen these relationships. I think
that's a great thing. So
I'm going to keep doing
it while as long as
they let me. Yeah. I
saw it on your, on
your blog that you got
some pretty, pretty sweet invites.
Not only did you go
to like the eight of
fruit, but you also saw
a tour of the MIT
media lab. I didn't. And
in fact that was a,
I was actually going as
a prospective student for that
visit. So that was kind
of neat. Yeah, it's immediate.
That was one of the
few places as you, as
you know, in the country
where it's, you have this
really nice mix of tech
and arts and math and
engineering, but, and, you know,
they've had quite a history
and I mean, they've been
doing it very successfully for
a long time. So you're
able to balance all of
this. You're doing work, you're
doing your job. You are
fairly recent, a master's degree,
graduate from Carnegie Mellon. If
I don't quite understand it
correctly, how are you managing
all of this at the
same time? I know that
I've just, it's all I
can do to do a
podcast, to have a full
time job and get the
occasional Arduino project done. How
are you managing all of
this 26 hours a day?
Yeah. Well, I think the
key is that I love
everything that I do. Right.
I love my job. I
love what I do. I'm
in the military. I love
what I do in my
garage or my basement. Right.
I love learning. And so
it all is not really
work for me, you know,
I don't, I don't really,
haven't worked a day in
my life. Right. So, and
so I'm, I'm fortunate that
way. I know a lot
of folks really don't have
that luxury, but it's, it's
worked out for me so
far. So thinking about some
of the tools that you're
using, you know, I, I
was talking to someone recently
who was working on a,
a movie or a TV
show and they're, you know,
doing techie type stuff. And
we joke sometimes as techies
about how uncomfortable the dialogue
is in, in, in TV
shows, except for, of course,
mr. Robot that you pointed
out is one of the
great shining examples of tech
done right on TV. And
someone used the term military
grade, which makes me always
think about like that rugged
Panasonic tough book. You know
what I mean? When I
think about, yeah, you're right.
But I realized that in
the last five to 10
years, like Arduinos and raspberry
pies and these small tiny
devices kind of came up,
is that something that was,
was around, did we have
these miniaturized full spec computers
before, or, and has that
changed as some of the
army is aware of, is
the military realizing that computers
can be hidden under someone's
tongue? Yeah. You know, it's,
it's, it's interesting. You have
a, you know, so these
are, this has been a
fairly recent phenomenon, these sort
of microcomputers and microcontrollers at
the price point, right. I
mean, they've been around for
a while, but just primitively
expensive. And the military certainly
aware of these, but it's,
you've got to think about
it from the military acquisition
process is something that is,
you know, I don't wish
upon my worst enemy having
to go through a, you
know, we look at a
piece of X, so whether
it's a tank or a,
a fighter jet or helicopter
or computer, and we say,
well, we need, we need
this thing to do these
a number of tasks. And
so we spent some time
making this list of tasks
that this device is supposed
to do, right? A tank
is supposed to be able
to withstand so many rounds
or this type of concussion
right. Of force. And so
we spent some time writing
these tasks and what we
want this tank to look
like. And it takes a
lot of time. Then we
have to, you know, bid
it out and get someone
to build it. And these
things take years, and years
and years, military is trying
to apply that same sort
of scheduling and construct to
technology, you know, like sort
of lower-end technology thinking about
to computers, the desktop computers
to microprocessors making controllers. And
it just doesn't work because
in the same eight years,
and it takes you to,
as you would a tank
in terms of setting everything
up, you know, and that
same eight years, this is
Moore's law comes into effect
several times over. And that
in device that you initially
sort of made the list
of, of competencies and bid
out for and wrote this
contract for is now obsolete
several times over. So we've
got to, as a DOD,
come up with an alternative
to an ex you know,
something that works well for,
for certain types of acquisitions,
but we need to come
up with an alternative specifically
focused on this tech. So
we're aware that it's out
there, but we have to
fix the system on how
we actually acquire it for
use in the DOD. Hey
folks, I wanted to take
a moment to tell you
about Reagan and their new
product called pulse. Reagan is
an error and crash reporting
software provider and their new
product pulse. It's a realtime
user monitoring product. It gives
you performance data and user
insights. Lets you understand exactly
what's happening when users interact
with your software. So you're
never left guessing. Reagan provides
you with the answers to
your performance questions and they've
found over 10 billion that's billion
with a B bugs and
customer apps with their crash
reporting product. And now Reagan
will help you understand application
quality. Like no one else
over 30,000 developers worldwide, can't
be wrong. I use Reagan
and all the time and
I enjoy it very much.
You can try it out
today with a no risk
30 day free trial start
improving your software quality immediately
try Reagan for free today@reagan.io.
You're talking to someone from,
from NASA recently And they
were also talking about the
idea of reliability versus, Hey,
this is fun and cool
and exciting. And you know,
there's not a raspberry PI
sitting on a Mars Lander
robot because not only is
it there's the acquisition that
takes years, but also that
we don't know if that's
a reliable thing. We do
know that we do know
a 46 is an extremely
reliable thing. So that's why
four 86 processors go to
space. Yeah. I mean, don't
get me wrong. It's a,
their reasons. And there are
great upsides as to why
we have this rugged, this
rigid process. Rather than that,
that's perhaps a good thing
about the bureaucracy. We're guaranteed
that the thing or we're,
we're, we're confident that the
device is going to perform
as described to us. But
you know, I think there,
you know, that works, but
what if, you know, at
the, at the price points
where some of these devices,
maybe you don't need it
to work a hundred percent
of the time and maybe
we shouldn't aim for a
hundred percent to be the
standard, perhaps as 80% solution
will work, if it's cheap
enough, right. We talk about
obsolescence and devices. If this
device that does this cool
thing works 80% of the
time, but it costs me
a hundred dollars to acquire.
Well, then I'll just acquire
10 of them. Instead of
buying the top a thousand
dollars device, that'll take way
longer to acquire. So that's
acquisition when it comes to
like official, you know, army
type stuff. But I understand
that you're also trying to
encourage the creation of makerspaces
on post are makerspaces, something
That people who maybe aren't
doing the job that you're
doing, like just kind of
regular rank and file army
people could come and get
involved in and learn about
making as well. So I'm,
I'm really excited about this
initiative and this is, you
know, perhaps this Makerspace will
be on posts, perhaps it
will be just off post,
you know, in the community
because after all, we're trying
to help form better relationships
between the military and the
public. So perhaps being off
post might be a better
option just for folks to
get visibility on service members
and sort of see that
service members are people too,
when our makers too, you
know, that's kind of fun
and on and on the
converse, you have, you know,
service members, folks in the
army, for example, learning from
the community. Cause we have
a lot of talented engineers
and educators and students out
there in the community that
don't get the chance to
interface as much as we'd
like. And we also think
it's pretty important to, to
look at these makerspaces as
perhaps a, you know, we
have, you know, we have
engineers and technicians in the
army, but we have some
infantryman, right. That are really
technically talented and just didn't
know it, that they're also
they're makers and they're working
on their cars and you
know what they're making in
their free time. They just
don't call themselves that. So
perhaps this maker space is
a way to identify them
from an already existing, talented
pool of, of soldiers and
individuals that, you know, these
folks are out there and
this can help highlight some
of those skills that make
them proud of it. No,
that's really interesting that that
term maker there's been a
lot of discussion about that.
And there was interestingly, a
medium blog post a couple
of days ago where an
individual basically thought that was
a bad name, that the
term maker put too much
emphasis on, on creators. Like
we all have to go
out and create and be
unique snowflakes and stuff, and
sometimes just tearing things apart
and plugging them in differently
and putting them back together
again is, you know, has
value as well or being
a really good consumer of
something. Do you, do you
think that this term maker
is being overused and that
there's a negative connotation to
it? Is it exclusionary? I
dunno, I, this, of course
this might be quite biased,
but I think that I
see nothing but good things
in the term maker. It's,
I'm seeing it more and
more certainly, you know, between
all the various events from
maker media and the publications
and those types of things.
So I'm seeing, unfortunately I'm
seeing a very positive light
on the term maker. Yeah.
So yeah, I tend to
think so as well. I
don't, I mean, I realize
that not everyone can be
a, a creator and I
think sometimes people may ascribe
the sense of consumerism. And
you know, when I say
maker, I think about solving
problems less than I think
about creating products to sell.
You know what I mean?
Yeah. You're making, you're making
products and you're also making
solutions, which are of course
less, less tangible. You know,
ideas are hard to get
our minds around in terms
of when you're creating something
physical, it's you have much
more visceral reaction, right? Because
of course you can handle
it and touch it and
things like that. But through
sometimes just creating a process,
making a new process is
almost as valuable, Right. I
really liked the idea and
I'm hoping that my will
have the same sense of
the, and also my partners,
Tiran, who I'm working with
on with this marches for
makers.com all the month of
March is the idea that
that making something or being
able to make something is
a sense of power and
empowerment. And I think that
it would give young people
and people in general, for
lack of a better word,
you know, a straighter back,
you walk more tall when
you know how to do
things, you know, like woodworking
is just so visceral. And
so you have such a
sense of accomplishment and I
feel the same way, whether
it be soldering or whatever,
you know, and we should
all have that feeling of
power. I agree. I think
it's a, you know, one
thing I don't, I didn't
like as an educator, I
didn't like seeing in my
classrooms where, you know, the
sort of the, the techie
students sort of revered for
his prowess on whether it's
a computer or a phone
or, you know, whatever technical
thing, you know, as in
I'm a technologist at heart.
But I still thought that
was kind of a negative
thing. I wanted my, my
English majors in my history
majors to be just as
involved and just as excited
about the possibilities of these
wonderful technical tools as this
computer scientist was. Right. Exactly.
Imagine what we would feel
like if we were talking
about being literate reading, and
we, if someone was a
naturally good reader, we would
Revere them and make the
other kids feel lousy about
not reading. And then eventually
the kids would just give
up and stop reading altogether.
I feel the same thing
happens with, with, you know,
quote unquote, computer people or
techies, or you, you get
self identified as a techie
and there may be cultural
reasons, economic reasons. There could
be any number of demographic
reasons that may cause you
to either be identified or
not identified as not being
a techie. If we did
the same thing to numeracy
or literacy, I think we
would be up in arms,
we'd say this is unacceptable,
but we seem to think
it's okay for computer people
to do this. Yeah, I
think, I think it's improving
though. We're getting to the
point where we're realizing as
a nation, as a society
that, you know, computers and
cyber and cyber security, aren't
really technical issues. You know,
there are human issues that
are, and then the computers
and our connectivity or the
tools behind it. So I
like looking at a lot
of these things that I
talk about, especially in security
from sort of the human
lens. I mean, we can,
we have all these whizzbang
products and the latest and
greatest firewalls, but at the
end of the day, you
know, these are humans using
it. These are humans making
mistakes. And sometimes we're looking
to exploit these mistakes to
our advantage, right? And we're
looking to prevent that from
the defensive point of view.
So if we can learn
to appreciate our technical world,
our technically saturated world from
more of a human lens,
I think we will be
better off One of the
shows that I did recently,
that it got a lot
of people thinking where a
woman named Keisha Rogers said
that we should stop teaching
kids, how to code and
start teaching kids how to
think about systems and how
systems fit together. And that
systems level thinking is something
that was being completely deemphasized
as we run around frantically
trying to get kids to
learn Python or for what
do you think about that?
I think she's got it.
The, our world is obviously
becoming much more interconnected, you
know, on a day by
day basis. We have, you
know, the internet of things
has been the buzzword for
a while. Our computers, phones,
fridges, toasters, you know, in
a connected. And you know,
if you told me this
10 years ago, I would
have said, well, that's ridiculous.
Well, imagine, imagine what the
world will look like in
10 years from now, you
know, there, there are things
that will be out there
that we can't even wrap
our heads around right now.
But you look when you
sort of take a step
back, you realize that these
are all systems. These are
all many times unique systems
that have their own set
of rules. And we're finding
really true, really clever ways
of putting them all together
for hopefully to, to make
things easier for us. And
so if we can take
it from that point of
view, understanding that these are
system of systems of systems
and seeing what lessons we
can learn from that relationship
and that interconnectedness. And I
think that's the way to
go, rather than thinking about
it strictly from a low
sort of low level technical
point of view, understanding what
they are in terms of
systems. It's an awesome thing.
I feel like, like layers
of abstraction are getting, so
the layer is so opaque
now that people just take
certain aspects of technology as
just being Yeah. You know,
it's one of the, one
of the downsides of, of
the wonderful products that we
get from the major companies,
tech companies is that yeah,
they make our lives easier,
but it's, it's, we're almost
becoming numb to how incredible
this technology really is and
how much effort goes on
behind it. These things just
work now when I was
growing up computers and just
work, and they're always, there
was always some aspect you
had to troubleshoot. And in
that troubleshooting process, you were
going to learn something for
sure. Now things just work.
And if they don't work
it's well, let me just
go around and get another,
or let me restart it
or something. And there's no,
there's not much learning going
on. So if we, if
we could force ourselves to
think about what's going on
behind the, under the hood
force, our students to do
the same and they will
be much better postured for
understanding from a security point
of view, why these things
fail and what we can
do about it. And just
from a usability point of
view, you know, sort of
get a better appreciation of
these products. Yeah. I think
that's very, very true. Just
last week I had a
guy, I had a knife,
a new iPhone, and every
five minutes like clockwork, it
would drop a phone call.
And I put up with
that for a week. Not
because of any poorly placed
loyalty towards Apple, but because
I really wanted to know
why, you know, is it,
is there a loose wire?
Is it a, is it
a antenna issue? And I
actually spent a lot of
time at the Apple store
trying to get them to
tell me something and they
wouldn't go any deeper than,
yeah. That is weird. Let
me go ahead and swap
that out for you. Yeah,
no, no, no, no, no.
I don't really want to
sit here and I want
to root cause this with
him. Well, I don't really
want a root cause with
you. I just want to
give you a new phone.
So this went around for
a week and a week
and basically I just got
a new phone. So now
I will never know why
this thing would loo you
know why every five minutes,
but I can't pop the
thing open cause it's disposable.
And that's just ridiculous. A
quad processor, a magical device,
super computer in my pocket.
That is now disposable. Yeah.
Yeah. They just swapped it.
It was, it was surprising.
So what kinds of IOT
projects are you doing at
home? I loved exploring on
your blog. You, you made
your own height, adjustable table
out of some mahogany and
some legs that you got
got all sorts of great
projects that you're working on.
What are you currently tinkering
with? So yeah, one of
my, as you mentioned, one
of my favorite things to
do with, of course tinkering,
but I'm also a huge
woodworker. So whenever I can
combine the two worlds, you
know, I absolutely love it.
So I actually built that
desk for my wife, who
is a, we have a
home office, we've had homeless,
she's had a home office
for a while. And so,
you know, the, the big
trend or, you know, these
standing desks. So I said,
you know, I can make
one of those and make
it prettier or make it
cooler or whatever. So I
built one and she's, and
she's loved it, but I
sort of get a little
jealous. So just a few
months ago I finished, I
finished the second one for
myself, so it's okay. My
soldering station there and everything
else. But so whenever I
can combine those worlds, I,
you know, I absolutely love
it. I'm working on right
now. A I've got two
small dogs, right. And I
built a dog house a
few years ago. And now
that we're back in sunny,
California, you know, it's out
there. I think you'll get
some, they'll get some use
out of it, but I'm
looking at it adding a
few sensors to this dog
house. So it's sort of
a, the door can open
whenever they get nearby. You
can get some, some status
updates on where they are.
Exactly. If they're sleeping in
the dog house, that sort
of thing, all may maybe
powered by a raspberry PI.
I'm not sure yet I
haven't selected it, but I,
you know, I love combining
all those worlds. Okay. When
you, when you pick a
project like that, like if
someone who's listening is thinking
like, Oh, that sounds like
something that I could do.
How much time do you
spend thinking about, you know,
the components and having confidence
that you can write it
from scratch versus seeing if
someone else has made a
doggy door opener, you know,
project all in one, it
sounds like you're probably more
of a looking at like
what level of Lego piece
are you looking for the
complete solution and you follow
the instructions, or are you
thinking about wires and chip
sets? I think there's, I
probably it's probably split for
me. You know, of course
the, the first first thing
I do is see what
else is out there. I'm
not about to reinvent the
wheel if I don't have
to. And there are a
lot of really talented folks
who are, who share freely.
Of course you, that's the
beauty about the, the net
is that folks who like
to do this tend to
document really well and their
plans and their successes and
failures. So that's the first
place I look. And sometimes
in fact, you know, I'll
have an idea. I'm sure
that I want to do
a certain thing, but then
I'll look, I'll look online
and I'll see, you know,
some that I hadn't considered
and that in turn can
help in turn can help
refine my idea into something,
something even greater. Sometimes I
do have to sort of
roll my own code, right.
Or invent my own way
of doing a certain thing,
but it's kind of fun.
It always starts out though,
seeing, seeing what else is
out there. And, and that's
the coolest part of the
whole learning process. I think
I really find more and
more than I do solutions
that solve a particular problem.
I really admire people who
can make art related installations,
where they can do something
and I'll ask them why
they did it. And they'll
say because it was pretty
or because it was awesome.
For some reason, I keep
looking for problems in my
house and then wanting to
fix them. So like the,
the idea of a smart
home for pets, that's like,
I can get my brain
around that and I can
jump into that, but I
don't know if I could
do an art installation for,
for no other reason that
it is pretty, I think
that's just how I'm wired
for wanting to solve problems.
The thing is that I,
I would say that I
agree, but I think back
to some of my, my
projects that have to do
with something artistics and whether
it's a sound activated, light
display, or an led cube
or something, and those were
actually, you know, that's art.
And I had my fun
in terms of soldering all
the joints and things like
that and planning out the
circuits, but in the end,
what did these things do?
Well, nothing really, but they
look pretty. So I don't
know. I wouldn't, I want
to sell yourself short there.
I think you're, you're probably
plenty artistic everything about it.
Well, like you have a
great led cube. Number two
that you did there is
that has, this is huge.
What do you got? 64
LEDs in an array. Do
you still have that Foreign
it's sitting on my desk
here on my shelf here
And is, and it sounds
activated as well. This particular
one isn't I have actually
the table that I described,
my little soldering, some electronic
expense and soldering station. I
actually, I glued a strip
of LEDs to the back
of the table so that
when it is sound activated,
the light reflects off of
my white wall. So it
gives us cool glow whenever
I'm playing music or, or
whatever, it's kind kinda neat.
It's very soothing. You know,
if you're putting on some,
some jazz or some classical
while you're, while you're smelling
a solder fumes, it's fine.
I like, I think I'm
going to make the arc
reactor that you, that you
did a couple of five
years ago. Yeah. I really
liked that one because I
was in the middle of
Afghanistan for that particular project.
And yeah, it was, was
in October. So approaching Halloween.
And as you can imagine,
there not a whole lot
of Halloween party planning in
the middle of Afghanistan, but
one thing they do have,
there's a lot of like
stuff, broken stuff. So whether
they're optics from, from an
aircraft that have bullet holes
through them, or all types
of stuff that was upgraded
tech that was upgraded and
disposed dispose of. So there
was tons of parts that
had access to. And so
I thought, you know, I'm
not going to let this
Halloween pass by with a
little fun. So I found
a couple of led Rings
and I built my own
power supply and hit it
under my uniform. And so
Halloween night, you know, their
folks sort of around getting
dinner and trying to have
a little downtime in between
operations, I, I made it
so that my, my Ironman
arc reactor that was hidden
underneath my uniform was controlled
by a remote in my
hand. So you can imagine
the surprise as I'm walking
around the fog, the Ford
operating base, and this, this
led is slowly starting to
get more and more intense
on anything. My uniform is
kind of, kind of a
trippy sight, but folks around
me love it. And so
it's sort of, you know,
it's, you know, it brings
itself a sense of calmness.
It was fun for me,
but it also helps, you
know, it helps everyone remember
remind themselves of like, you
know, what fun is when
you're out there in those
tough times. Yeah, definitely. I'll
be sure to include links
to your blog, to your
projects and in this project
in particular. I think the
other thing that surprised me
about this one was that
you powered that arc reactor
with a 13.5 volt battery.
And I'm looking at a
picture here where you actually
cut open a nine volt
battery and made it made
a one and a half
nine volt battery power of
supply, which I I've never
done that. I've never, I
never thought to open up
the battery. And so it
was in there. I know
it's sort of what I
had at the time. Right.
I had like these weird
LEDs that had certain power
requirement and they didn't have
the exact thing. So I
took apart a few batteries
and just sort of made
it happen. That's fantastic. Well,
I really appreciate you chatting
with me today. This has
given me a lot of
inspiration about how to apply
these things. Not only to
my personal life, but also
at work. And I really
admire what you're doing down
there. Thanks so much, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.